These files include recent examples of python code used to facilitate updates of an economic dashboard (tableau visualization).

Files connecting to BEA and BLS utilize an API while files connected to census use their direct download/file transfer protocol source.

Data is then cleaned and manipulated for use in tableau visualizations.  Generally that includes reformatting the table, changing units, 
creating per-capita calculations, or calculating values for changes over different time periods.

Data is then both exported for use in other analysis and updated in a set of google sheets that serve as the source files for the tableau visualizations.

This python-google sheets-tableau combination was arrived at for several reasons:
- Automatic updates were originally done in Stata but moving to python allowed us to reduce expensive licenses and is a more widely used language
- Allows a highly automated update process for the visualizations (intended to be real time) but maintains at least 2 human clicks as safeguard and
  to confirm that existing economic analysis text is also updated
- Configuring data updates through google sheets allowed us to maintain easy/automatic data updates in tableau without upgrading from public account.

API keys and other potentially sensitive information has been removed for public upload.

The data grabbed by each file is briefly described below.

BEA GDP.py
10 years of quarterly GDP data for U.S., Connecticut, Massachusetts, New jersey, New York, Rhode Island from BEA
10 years of quarterly GDP data for Connecticut broken down by industry from BEA

Business Formation Statistics.py
Monthly seasonally adjusted Business Applications and High Propensity Business Applications for Connecticut and U.S. from census
Calculates per capita values and per capita 12 month moving averages for CT and U.S.

CES BLS API.py
Downloads monthly employment by industry for Connecticut over the last five years from census

Census_Population_Estimates_Time_Series.py
State and national annual population estimates from 2010 to 2023 from census
Imported by other .py files for per capita calculations

JOLTS BLS API.py
Downloads 5 years of monthly hires, separations, and job openings levels and rates (including unemployed per job opening ratios) data for Connecticut and U.S from BLS

LAUS BLS API.py
Downloads 5 years of monthly labor force rates data for Connecticut and U.S. and levels data for CT from BLS



